**Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and its software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did the company want you to address?**
Artemis Financial is a fictional financial service provider. They are responsible for storing and distributing their clients personal information including sensitive financial records. As such, they have a large interest in computer security because they know that it's paramount to their business to keep their clients safe.
**What did you do well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall well-being?**
This application relied on many outdated libraries for it's functionality. This meant that they were exposed to known security vulnerabilites. However, the simple action of updating these libraries to their current versions would remedy that situation. This illustrates how important it is to maintain and keep existing code up to date in the battle for cyber security. It takes diligence and effort but it's the only way to keep the software secure and protect their clients. Not only would it be disastrous for their clients should this information be breached, but also devastating for a company who relies on their customers trusting them with very sensitive information.
**Which part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?**
It can a challenge to load up an outdated code base and go through each vulnerability and determine the correct course of action. In some cases the listed vulnerability may not really apply to how we are using that library. In others, the updated library may have different functionality than what we've programmed our software to rely on and break the product. Many times it's as simple as just updating to the newest version but it can be difficult in the grey areas between.
**How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?**
Every patch that gets put out to remove vulnerabilities is another layer of security blocking off potential attacks. I think the best way to mitigate these issues is by dilgent action to review the code base and ensure that not only the libraries are up to date, but the code we write is also staying secure.
**How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?**
By generating a new report after additions are made to a code base, you can immediately check yourself for vulnerabilites.
**What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?**
The most useful tool for this vulnerability check was OWASP dependency check. This tool did all the work of going out to NISTs database of known vulnerabilites and checking our code base against each and every one of them. While it can feel like a lot of work to read through the report, it would be and impossible task to do by hand.
**Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?**
I would show them a level of understanding of the importance I put on security. I don't plan on being a cyber security expert, but I do plan on taking it seriously in the products I work on.
